compose-charts/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
 <h1>AAY-chart</h1>
</div>

<div align="left">
The library contains several chart composables for usage in <strong>Kotlin Multiplatform</strong> projects and <strong>Android Native</strong>.   
Currently supported platforms are <strong>Desktop</strong> <strong>Android</strong> <strong>IOS </strong> and <strong>Web </strong></strong>
</div>

## **NOTE**
- This is a chart library by [TheChance101](https://github.com/TheChance101/AAY-chart)

- It is embedded in this project so that it is easier to maintain and fix bugs.

- The developer has not updated the library since 28th Sep 2023 as the time of writing this on 12th
  Sep 2024

- I have added an UNGROUPED bar chart separate from the grouped one for my needs

## How to use?

Add dependency in your module `build.gradle`

```kotlin
dependencies {
    implementation("io.github.thechance101:chart:$latest_release")
}
```

## Examples

1. Show Line Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun LineChartSample() {

    val testLineParameters: List<LineParameters> = listOf(
        LineParameters(
            label = "revenue",
            data = listOf(70.0, 00.0, 50.33, 40.0, 100.500, 50.0),
            lineColor = Color.Gray,
            lineType = LineType.CURVED_LINE,
            lineShadow = true,
        ),
        LineParameters(
            label = "Earnings",
            data = listOf(60.0, 80.6, 40.33, 86.232, 88.0, 90.0),
            lineColor = Color(0xFFFF7F50),
            lineType = LineType.DEFAULT_LINE,
            lineShadow = true
        ),
        LineParameters(
            label = "Earnings",
            data = listOf(1.0, 40.0, 11.33, 55.23, 1.0, 100.0),
            lineColor = Color(0xFF81BE88),
            lineType = LineType.CURVED_LINE,
            lineShadow = false,
        )
    )

    Box(Modifier) {
        LineChart(
            modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
            linesParameters = testLineParameters,
            isGrid = true,
            gridColor = Color.Blue,
            xAxisData = listOf("2015", "2016", "2017", "2018", "2019", "2020"),
            animateChart = true,
            showGridWithSpacer = true,
            yAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.Gray,
            ),
            xAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.Gray,
                fontWeight = FontWeight.W400
            ),
            yAxisRange = 14,
            oneLineChart = false,
            gridOrientation = GridOrientation.VERTICAL
        )
    }
}
```

2. Show Grouped Bar Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun GroupedBarChartSample() {

    val testBarParameters: List<GBarParameters> = listOf(
        GBarParameters(
            dataName = "Completed",
            data = listOf(0.6, 10.6, 80.0, 50.6, 44.0, 100.6, 10.0),
            barColor = Color(0xFF6C3428)
        ),
        GBarParameters(
            dataName = "Completed",
            data = listOf(50.0, 30.6, 77.0, 69.6, 50.0, 30.6, 80.0),
            barColor = Color(0xFFBA704F),
        ),
        GBarParameters(
            dataName = "Completed",
            data = listOf(100.0, 99.6, 60.0, 80.6, 10.0, 100.6, 55.99),
            barColor = Color(0xFFDFA878),
        ),
    )

    Box(Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
        GroupedBarChart(
            chartParameters = testBarParameters,
            gridColor = Color.DarkGray,
            xAxisData = listOf("2016", "2017", "2018", "2019", "2020", "2021", "2022"),
            isShowGrid = true,
            animateChart = true,
            showGridWithSpacer = true,
            yAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.DarkGray,
            ),
            xAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.DarkGray,
                fontWeight = FontWeight.W400
            ),
            yAxisRange = 15,
            barWidth = 20.dp
        )
    }
}
```

3. Show Un-Grouped Bar Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun BarChartSample() {

    val testBarParameters: List<BarParameters> = listOf(
        BarParameters(
            dataName = "January",
            data = 23.5,
            barColor = Color(0xFF6C3428)
        ),
        BarParameters(
            dataName = "June",
            data = 60.7,
            barColor = Color(0xFFBA704F),
        ),
        BarParameters(
            dataName = "December",
            data = 58.0,
            barColor = Color(0xFFDFA878),
        ),
    )

    Box(Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
        BarChart(
            chartParameters = testBarParameters,
            gridColor = Color.DarkGray,
            xAxisData = listOf("January", "June", "December"),
            isShowGrid = true,
            animateChart = true,
            showGridWithSpacer = true,
            yAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.DarkGray,
            ),
            xAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.DarkGray,
                fontWeight = FontWeight.W400
            ),
            yAxisRange = 15,
            barWidth = 20.dp
        )
    }
}
```

4. Show Pie Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun PieChartSample() {

    val testPieChartData: List<PieChartData> = listOf(
        PieChartData(
            partName = "part A",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFF22A699),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part B",
            data = 700.0,
            color = Color(0xFFF2BE22),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part C",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFFF29727),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part D",
            data = 100.0,
            color = Color(0xFFF24C3D),
        ),
    )

    PieChart(
        modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
        pieChartData = testPieChartData,
        ratioLineColor = Color.LightGray,
        textRatioStyle = TextStyle(color = Color.Gray),
    )
}
```

5. Show Donut Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun DonutChartSample() {

    val testPieChartData: List<PieChartData> = listOf(
        PieChartData(
            partName = "part A",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFF0B666A),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part B",
            data = 700.0,
            color = Color(0xFF35A29F),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part C",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFF97FEED),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part D",
            data = 100.0,
            color = Color(0xFF071952),
        ),
    )

    DonutChart(
        modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
        pieChartData = testPieChartData,
        centerTitle = "Orders",
        centerTitleStyle = TextStyle(color = Color(0xFF071952)),
        outerCircularColor = Color.LightGray,
        innerCircularColor = Color.Gray,
        ratioLineColor = Color.LightGray,
    )
}
```

6. Show Radar Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun RadarChartSample() {
    val radarLabels =
        listOf(
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Part A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A"
        )
    val values2 = listOf(120.0, 160.0, 110.0, 112.0, 200.0, 120.0, 145.0, 101.0, 200.0)
    val values = listOf(180.0, 180.0, 165.0, 135.0, 120.0, 150.0, 140.0, 190.0, 200.0)
    val labelsStyle = TextStyle(
        color = Color.Black,
        fontFamily = FontFamily.Serif,
        fontWeight = FontWeight.Medium,
        fontSize = 10.sp
    )

    val scalarValuesStyle = TextStyle(
        color = Color.Black,
        fontFamily = FontFamily.Serif,
        fontWeight = FontWeight.Medium,
        fontSize = 10.sp
    )

    RadarChart(
        modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
        radarLabels = radarLabels,
        labelsStyle = labelsStyle,
        netLinesStyle = NetLinesStyle(
            netLineColor = Color(0x90ffD3CFD3),
            netLinesStrokeWidth = 2f,
            netLinesStrokeCap = StrokeCap.Butt
        ),
        scalarSteps = 2,
        scalarValue = 200.0,
        scalarValuesStyle = scalarValuesStyle,
        polygons = listOf(
            Polygon(
                values = values,
                unit = "$",
                style = PolygonStyle(
                    fillColor = Color(0xffc2ff86),
                    fillColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderColor = Color(0xffe6ffd6),
                    borderColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderStrokeWidth = 2f,
                    borderStrokeCap = StrokeCap.Butt,
                )
            ),
            Polygon(
                values = values2,
                unit = "$",
                style = PolygonStyle(
                    fillColor = Color(0xffFFDBDE),
                    fillColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderColor = Color(0xffFF8B99),
                    borderColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderStrokeWidth = 2f,
                    borderStrokeCap = StrokeCap.Butt
                )
            )
        )
    )
}

```

## Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/TheChance101/AAY-chart/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=TheChance101/AAY-chart" />
</a>

## MIT License

    Copyright (c) 2023 The Chance

    permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
    SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

new implementation of ungrouped + tweaks to pie charts
Signed-off-by: Racka <bmkilaha@gmail.com>

compose-charts/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
 <h1>AAY-chart</h1>
</div>

<div align="left">
The library contains several chart composables for usage in <strong>Kotlin Multiplatform</strong> projects and <strong>Android Native</strong>.   
Currently supported platforms are <strong>Desktop</strong> <strong>Android</strong> <strong>IOS </strong> and <strong>Web </strong></strong>
</div>

## **NOTE**

- This is a modification of the chart library
  by [TheChance101](https://github.com/TheChance101/AAY-chart)

- It is embedded in this project so that it is easier to maintain, add features and fix bugs.

- The developer has not updated the library since 28th Sep 2023 as the time of writing this on 12th
  Sep 2024

- I have added an UNGROUPED bar chart separate from the grouped one for my needs

## Examples

1. Show Line Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun LineChartSample() {

    val testLineParameters: List<LineParameters> = listOf(
        LineParameters(
            label = "revenue",
            data = listOf(70.0, 00.0, 50.33, 40.0, 100.500, 50.0),
            lineColor = Color.Gray,
            lineType = LineType.CURVED_LINE,
            lineShadow = true,
        ),
        LineParameters(
            label = "Earnings",
            data = listOf(60.0, 80.6, 40.33, 86.232, 88.0, 90.0),
            lineColor = Color(0xFFFF7F50),
            lineType = LineType.DEFAULT_LINE,
            lineShadow = true
        ),
        LineParameters(
            label = "Earnings",
            data = listOf(1.0, 40.0, 11.33, 55.23, 1.0, 100.0),
            lineColor = Color(0xFF81BE88),
            lineType = LineType.CURVED_LINE,
            lineShadow = false,
        )
    )

    Box(Modifier) {
        LineChart(
            modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
            linesParameters = testLineParameters,
            isGrid = true,
            gridColor = Color.Blue,
            xAxisData = listOf("2015", "2016", "2017", "2018", "2019", "2020"),
            animateChart = true,
            showGridWithSpacer = true,
            yAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.Gray,
            ),
            xAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.Gray,
                fontWeight = FontWeight.W400
            ),
            yAxisRange = 14,
            oneLineChart = false,
            gridOrientation = GridOrientation.VERTICAL
        )
    }
}
```

2. Show Grouped Bar Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun GroupedBarChartSample() {

    val testBarParameters: List<GBarParameters> = listOf(
        GBarParameters(
            dataName = "Completed",
            data = listOf(0.6, 10.6, 80.0, 50.6, 44.0, 100.6, 10.0),
            barColor = Color(0xFF6C3428)
        ),
        GBarParameters(
            dataName = "Completed",
            data = listOf(50.0, 30.6, 77.0, 69.6, 50.0, 30.6, 80.0),
            barColor = Color(0xFFBA704F),
        ),
        GBarParameters(
            dataName = "Completed",
            data = listOf(100.0, 99.6, 60.0, 80.6, 10.0, 100.6, 55.99),
            barColor = Color(0xFFDFA878),
        ),
    )

    Box(Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
        GroupedBarChart(
            chartParameters = testBarParameters,
            gridColor = Color.DarkGray,
            xAxisData = listOf("2016", "2017", "2018", "2019", "2020", "2021", "2022"),
            isShowGrid = true,
            animateChart = true,
            showGridWithSpacer = true,
            yAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.DarkGray,
            ),
            xAxisStyle = TextStyle(
                fontSize = 14.sp,
                color = Color.DarkGray,
                fontWeight = FontWeight.W400
            ),
            yAxisRange = 15,
            barWidth = 20.dp
        )
    }
}
```

3. Show Un-Grouped Bar Chart that is clickable in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun BarChartSample() {

    val testBarParameters: List<BarParameters> = listOf(
        BarParameters(
            dataName = "January",
            data = 23.5,
            barColor = Color(0xFF6C3428)
        ),
        BarParameters(
            dataName = "June",
            data = 60.7,
            barColor = Color(0xFFBA704F),
        ),
        BarParameters(
            dataName = "December",
            data = 58.0,
            barColor = Color(0xFFDFA878),
        ),
    )

    val xAxisData by remember {
        derivedStateOf {
            testBarParameters.map { it.dataName }
        }
    }

    val selectedBarColor = Color.Blue
    // Initialize with `null` if you don't need a default selection
    val selectedBarIndex = remember { mutableStateOf<Int?>(null) }
    val labelColor = MaterialTheme.colorScheme.onSurface

    Box(Modifier.fillMaxSize()) {
        BarChart(
            chartParameters = testBarParameters,
            gridColor = Color.DarkGray,
            xAxisData = xAxisData,
            animateChart = true,
            showYAxis = false,
            showYAxisLabels = false,
            yAxisStyle = MaterialTheme.typography.labelMedium.copy(labelColor),
            xAxisStyle = MaterialTheme.typography.labelMedium.copy(color = labelColor),
            selectedBarColor = selectedBarColor,
            selectedBarIndex = selectedBarIndex.value,
            onBarClicked = { index -> selectedBarIndex.value = index }
        )
    }
}
```

4. Show Pie Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun PieChartSample() {

    val testPieChartData: List<PieChartData> = listOf(
        PieChartData(
            partName = "part A",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFF22A699),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part B",
            data = 700.0,
            color = Color(0xFFF2BE22),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part C",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFFF29727),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part D",
            data = 100.0,
            color = Color(0xFFF24C3D),
        ),
    )

    PieChart(
        modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
        pieChartData = testPieChartData,
        ratioLineColor = Color.LightGray,
        textRatioStyle = TextStyle(color = Color.Gray),
    )
}
```

5. Show Donut Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun DonutChartSample() {

    val testPieChartData: List<PieChartData> = listOf(
        PieChartData(
            partName = "part A",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFF0B666A),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part B",
            data = 700.0,
            color = Color(0xFF35A29F),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part C",
            data = 500.0,
            color = Color(0xFF97FEED),
        ),
        PieChartData(
            partName = "Part D",
            data = 100.0,
            color = Color(0xFF071952),
        ),
    )

    DonutChart(
        modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
        pieChartData = testPieChartData,
        centerTitle = "Orders",
        centerTitleStyle = TextStyle(color = Color(0xFF071952)),
        outerCircularColor = Color.LightGray,
        innerCircularColor = Color.Gray,
        ratioLineColor = Color.LightGray,
    )
}
```

6. Show Radar Chart in Jetpack Compose:

```kotlin
@Composable
fun RadarChartSample() {
    val radarLabels =
        listOf(
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Part A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A",
            "Party A"
        )
    val values2 = listOf(120.0, 160.0, 110.0, 112.0, 200.0, 120.0, 145.0, 101.0, 200.0)
    val values = listOf(180.0, 180.0, 165.0, 135.0, 120.0, 150.0, 140.0, 190.0, 200.0)
    val labelsStyle = TextStyle(
        color = Color.Black,
        fontFamily = FontFamily.Serif,
        fontWeight = FontWeight.Medium,
        fontSize = 10.sp
    )

    val scalarValuesStyle = TextStyle(
        color = Color.Black,
        fontFamily = FontFamily.Serif,
        fontWeight = FontWeight.Medium,
        fontSize = 10.sp
    )

    RadarChart(
        modifier = Modifier.fillMaxSize(),
        radarLabels = radarLabels,
        labelsStyle = labelsStyle,
        netLinesStyle = NetLinesStyle(
            netLineColor = Color(0x90ffD3CFD3),
            netLinesStrokeWidth = 2f,
            netLinesStrokeCap = StrokeCap.Butt
        ),
        scalarSteps = 2,
        scalarValue = 200.0,
        scalarValuesStyle = scalarValuesStyle,
        polygons = listOf(
            Polygon(
                values = values,
                unit = "$",
                style = PolygonStyle(
                    fillColor = Color(0xffc2ff86),
                    fillColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderColor = Color(0xffe6ffd6),
                    borderColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderStrokeWidth = 2f,
                    borderStrokeCap = StrokeCap.Butt,
                )
            ),
            Polygon(
                values = values2,
                unit = "$",
                style = PolygonStyle(
                    fillColor = Color(0xffFFDBDE),
                    fillColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderColor = Color(0xffFF8B99),
                    borderColorAlpha = 0.5f,
                    borderStrokeWidth = 2f,
                    borderStrokeCap = StrokeCap.Butt
                )
            )
        )
    )
}

```

## Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/TheChance101/AAY-chart/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=TheChance101/AAY-chart" />
</a>

## MIT License

    Copyright (c) 2023 The Chance

    permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
    SOFTWARE.
